README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube/blob/master/icons/icon-128.png" alt="FilterTube Icon">
  <h1>FilterTube</h1>
  <p>Peace of Mind for your Digital Space</p>
</div>

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube)

## Overview

FilterTube is a browser extension that gives you control over your YouTube feed. Filter videos, shorts, channels, and comments using keywords and smart rules—all processing happens privately on your device.

## Features

### Content Filtering

- **Block by Keyword**: Hide videos with specific words in the title.
- **Block Channels**: Paste Channel Name, `@handle`, `UCID`, or even `c/CustomURL`—FilterTube normalizes them all.
- **Hide Shorts**: Optional toggle to remove every Shorts shelf and player hand-off.
- **Smart Matching**: Choose partial or whole-word matching to stay strict or flexible.
- **Shelf & Playlist Cleanup**: Refilters shelves and playlists so blocked creators stay gone even after navigation.

### Channel & Data Management

- **Import / Export**: One-click backups keep filters synced across browsers with schema-v3 JSON.
- **Handle Enrichment Queue**: Newly imported channels are resolved slowly in the background to avoid hammering YouTube.
- **Kids Mode Profiles**: Maintain a separate, safer rule set for YouTube Kids without mixing it with the main profile.

### Comment Control

- **Hide All Comments**: Remove the comments section entirely for a cleaner interface.
- **Filter Comments**: Hide specific comments containing unwanted keywords.

### Release Awareness

- **Release Notes Banner**: Non-intrusive toast in YouTube surfaces highlights new capabilities.
- **“What’s New” Dashboard Tab**: Full changelog with deep links so you can jump straight to the feature that shipped.

### Stats & Insights

- **Time Saved**: See how much time you've saved by blocking distractions.
- **Daily Tracker**: Count of videos hidden today.

### Performance & Privacy

- **Zero Flash**: Filters content *before* it renders on screen.
- **100% Private**: No data leaves your browser. No analytics. No tracking.

### Help & Documentation

- **Help Page (Dashboard)**: In the new tab UI, a dedicated Help section explains every feature, import/export flow, and troubleshooting tip.

## Installation

### For Users
The easiest way to install FilterTube is via our official website:
👉 **[Install FilterTube.in](https://filtertube.in)** (Available for Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Brave, Opera)

Prefer a direct store link? Pick your browser:

- **Chrome / Brave**: [Chrome Web Store listing](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/filtertube/cjmdggnnpmpchholgnkfokibidbbnfgc)
- **Firefox**: [Firefox Add-ons listing](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/filtertube/)
- **Edge**: [Microsoft Edge Add-ons listing](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/filtertube/lgeflbmplcmljnhffmoghkoccflhlbem)

### For Developers
If you want to contribute or build from source:

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube.git
    cd FilterTube
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Run in Developer Mode**
    *   **Chrome/Edge/Brave**: `npm run dev:chrome`
    *   **Firefox**: `npm run dev:firefox`

3.  **Load Extension**
    *   **Chrome**: Go to `chrome://extensions`, enable **Developer mode**, click **Load unpacked**, and select the `FilterTube` folder.
    *   **Firefox**: Go to `about:debugging`, click **This Firefox**, then **Load Temporary Add-on**, and select `manifest.json`.

### 📱 Firefox for Android
1.  **Set up**: Connect your Android device to your computer via USB.
2.  **Install**: Use the Firefox build zip produced by `npm run build:firefox`.
3.  **Debug**: Follow Mozilla's guide to [debug extensions on Android](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/developing-extensions-for-firefox-for-android/) using `web-ext` or remote debugging.

## Usage

### Basic Filtering
1. Click the FilterTube icon in your browser toolbar
2. Enter keywords to filter (comma-separated)
3. Enter channel names, @handles, or channel/IDs to filter (comma-separated)
4. Click "Save" to apply filters

### Finding a Channel to Block
1. Go to the channel's page on YouTube
2. Copy the channel identifier from the URL:
   - `https://www.youtube.com/@HandleName` → Use `@HandleName`
   - `https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxxxxxxxx` → Use `UCxxxxxxxx` or `channel/UCxxxxxxxx`
3. Enter it in the Channels filter field

### Comment Filtering
1. Click the FilterTube icon
2. Toggle "Hide all comments" to completely hide comments
3. Or select "Filter comments with keywords/channels" to hide only matching comments

## How It Works

FilterTube filters unwanted content **before** it appears on your screen, giving you a clean YouTube experience.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  YouTube loads video data                                   │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  FilterTube intercepts the data BEFORE it renders           │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  Checks against your keywords & channels                    │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  ┌──────────────┐              ┌──────────────┐             │
│  │ Matches your │  →  HIDDEN   │ Doesn't match│  →  SHOWN   │
│  │ filters      │              │ your filters │             │
│  └──────────────┘              └──────────────┘             │
│                                                             │
│  Result: Clean YouTube feed with only content you want      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### What Makes FilterTube Different

**Lightning Fast** - Filters content before YouTube renders it, so you never see unwanted videos flash on screen

**100% Private** - Everything happens in your browser. No data is sent to external servers.

**Comprehensive** - Filters videos, shorts, playlists, channels, comments, and more across all YouTube pages

**Reliable** - Uses a two-layer system: intercepts YouTube's data first, then monitors the page as backup

### Future Features (Coming Soon)

- **Semantic ML Filtering**: AI-powered filtering that understands video context, not just keywords
- **Kids Mode**: PIN-protected safe environment with whitelisted channels only
- **Smart Sync**: Automatic linking of channel @handles and IDs for better blocking

## Privacy & Permissions

We believe in privacy by design.
*   **Storage**: To save your settings locally.
*   **Active Tab**: To scan the YouTube page you are viewing.
*   **No External Requests**: FilterTube does not talk to any servers other than YouTube (for the content you requested).

## 🎬 Shorts Blocking Experience

FilterTube v3.0 introduces a robust, hybrid blocking mechanism for YouTube Shorts. We prioritize **Zero Content Leakage** by verifying every channel before blocking.

```ascii
[User Clicks "Block"]
        |
        v
+-----------------------+
|  1. Fetch Channel ID  | (Extra step for Shorts)
+-----------------------+
        |
        v
+-----------------------+
|  2. Verify Identity   | (Resolve Canonical ID)
+-----------------------+
        |
        v
+-----------------------+
|  3. Block & Hide      |
+-----------------------+
```

- **Robust Verification**: We perform a multi-step check (approx. 1s) to ensure we have the correct, unique Channel ID.
- **Zero Leakage**: By resolving the canonical ID, we ensure that blocking a Short also blocks the channel's long-form videos and posts.
- **Smart Layouts**: Automatically adjusts the grid to prevent awkward blank spaces.

> [!NOTE]
> **Why the slight delay?**
> For Shorts we have an additioanl overhead(1s - 1.5s) of prefetching the channel ID and then resolving the canonical ID. This is to ensure that blocking a channel also blocks all its content, not just the short. Which makes 3 dot UI Blocking for shorts about 2s to 2.5s and rest assured if you have clicked "Block Channel" it will get blocked you can browse freely.

## Support

Found a bug or have a feature request? [Open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube/issues).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a detailed history of changes and improvements.

---

### Why FilterTube?

YouTube's recommendation algorithms can sometimes surface unwanted content. FilterTube gives you control over what appears in your feed, allowing for a more focused and pleasant viewing experience without distractions or unwanted content.

**It all started with this thread on Google's support forum:**
When a parent said that he is helpless and his kid is just kept crying and screaming because of the content on YouTubeKids, and he asked me if I can create a tool to block videos by keyword or tag.
And when Later YouTube Forum maintaner deleted mine and other parents comments and locked the thread, I decided to create FilterTube.

[https://support.google.com/youtubekids/thread/54509605/how-to-block-videos-by-keyword-or-tag?hl=en](https://support.google.com/youtubekids/thread/54509605/how-to-block-videos-by-keyword-or-tag?hl=en)

Perfect for:
- **Parents** who want to protect their children from inappropriate content
- **Students** who need to stay focused while researching
- **Anyone** who wants a distraction-free YouTube experience

## For Developers

### Building from Source

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Develop for Chrome/Edge/Brave/Opera
npm run dev:chrome

# Develop for Firefox
npm run dev:firefox

# Build packages for distribution
npm run build              # All browsers
npm run build:chrome       # Chrome only
npm run build:firefox      # Firefox only
```

For detailed technical documentation, see [docs/ARCHITECTURE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) and [docs/TECHNICAL.md](docs/TECHNICAL.md).

## Maintainer Notes: Script Layout

FilterTube runs code in two JavaScript contexts on YouTube:

### Isolated World (content scripts: DOM + UI)

The following scripts are loaded as content scripts (see `manifest*.json` for the authoritative load order):

- `js/shared/identity.js` – Shared channel identity helpers exposed as `window.FilterTubeIdentity`.
- `js/content/menu.js` – Menu styles + menu DOM helpers.
- `js/content/dom_helpers.js` – Small DOM helpers used by fallback logic.
- `js/content/dom_extractors.js` – DOM extraction helpers (video IDs, durations, card lookup).
- `js/content/dom_fallback.js` – DOM fallback filtering layer.
- `js/content/block_channel.js` – 3-dot menu observer/entry-point (detect dropdown + locate clicked card).
- `js/content_bridge.js` – Settings sync, bridge messaging, menu rendering/click handling, and blocking orchestration.

### Main World (page context: data interception)

- `js/seed.js` – Hook/override entry points for `ytInitialData`, `fetch`, and XHR.
- `js/injector.js` – Coordinator + main-world search helpers (e.g., `ytInitialData` lookups).
- `js/filter_logic.js` – Filtering engine that removes blocked content from YouTube’s JSON before render.

Commit message:

FIX: update docs to align current logic

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube/blob/master/icons/icon-128.png" alt="FilterTube Icon">
  <h1>FilterTube</h1>
  <p>Peace of Mind for your Digital Space</p>
</div>

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube)

## Overview

FilterTube is a browser extension that gives you control over your YouTube feed. Filter videos, shorts, channels, and comments using keywords and smart rules—all processing happens privately on your device.

## Features

### Content Filtering

- **Block by Keyword**: Hide videos with specific words in the title.
- **Block Channels**: Paste Channel Name, `@handle`, `UCID`, or even `c/CustomURL`—FilterTube normalizes them all.
- **Hide Shorts**: Optional toggle to remove every Shorts shelf and player hand-off.
- **Smart Matching**: Choose partial or whole-word matching to stay strict or flexible.
- **Shelf & Playlist Cleanup**: Refilters shelves and playlists so blocked creators stay gone even after navigation.

### Channel & Data Management

- **Import / Export**: One-click backups keep filters synced across browsers with schema-v3 JSON.
- **Handle Enrichment Queue**: Newly imported channels are resolved slowly in the background to avoid hammering YouTube.
- **Kids Mode Profiles**: Maintain a separate, safer rule set for YouTube Kids without mixing it with the main profile.

### Comment Control

- **Hide All Comments**: Remove the comments section entirely for a cleaner interface.
- **Filter Comments**: Hide specific comments containing unwanted keywords.

### Release Awareness

- **Release Notes Banner**: Non-intrusive toast in YouTube surfaces highlights new capabilities.
- **“What’s New” Dashboard Tab**: Full changelog with deep links so you can jump straight to the feature that shipped.

### Stats & Insights

- **Time Saved**: See how much time you've saved by blocking distractions.
- **Daily Tracker**: Count of videos hidden today.

### Performance & Privacy

- **Zero Flash**: Filters content *before* it renders on screen.
- **100% Private**: No data leaves your browser. No analytics. No tracking.

### Help & Documentation

- **Help Page (Dashboard)**: In the new tab UI, a dedicated Help section explains every feature, import/export flow, and troubleshooting tip.

## Installation

### For Users
The easiest way to install FilterTube is via our official website:
👉 **[Install FilterTube.in](https://filtertube.in)** (Available for Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Brave, Opera)

Prefer a direct store link? Pick your browser:

- **Chrome / Brave**: [Chrome Web Store listing](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/filtertube/cjmdggnnpmpchholgnkfokibidbbnfgc)
- **Firefox**: [Firefox Add-ons listing](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/filtertube/)
- **Edge**: [Microsoft Edge Add-ons listing](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/filtertube/lgeflbmplcmljnhffmoghkoccflhlbem)

### For Developers
If you want to contribute or build from source:

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube.git
    cd FilterTube
    npm install
    ```

2.  **Run in Developer Mode**
    *   **Chrome/Edge/Brave**: `npm run dev:chrome`
    *   **Firefox**: `npm run dev:firefox`

3.  **Load Extension**
    *   **Chrome**: Go to `chrome://extensions`, enable **Developer mode**, click **Load unpacked**, and select the `FilterTube` folder.
    *   **Firefox**: Go to `about:debugging`, click **This Firefox**, then **Load Temporary Add-on**, and select `manifest.json`.

### 📱 Firefox for Android
1.  **Set up**: Connect your Android device to your computer via USB.
2.  **Install**: Use the Firefox build zip produced by `npm run build:firefox`.
3.  **Debug**: Follow Mozilla's guide to [debug extensions on Android](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/developing-extensions-for-firefox-for-android/) using `web-ext` or remote debugging.

## Usage

### Basic Filtering
1. Click the FilterTube icon in your browser toolbar
2. Enter keywords to filter (comma-separated)
3. Enter channel names, @handles, or channel/IDs to filter (comma-separated)
4. Click "Save" to apply filters

### Finding a Channel to Block
1. Go to the channel's page on YouTube
2. Copy the channel identifier from the URL:
   - `https://www.youtube.com/@HandleName` → Use `@HandleName`
   - `https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxxxxxxxx` → Use `UCxxxxxxxx` or `channel/UCxxxxxxxx`
3. Enter it in the Channels filter field

### Comment Filtering
1. Click the FilterTube icon
2. Toggle "Hide all comments" to completely hide comments
3. Or select "Filter comments with keywords/channels" to hide only matching comments

## How It Works

FilterTube filters unwanted content **before** it appears on your screen, giving you a clean YouTube experience.

Under the hood, FilterTube also maintains lightweight identity caches:

- `channelMap`: `@handle` / `c/<slug>` / `user/<slug>` ↔ `UC...`
- `videoChannelMap`: `videoId` → `UC...`

On both **YouTube Main** and **YouTube Kids**, FilterTube can often learn the canonical channel ID **without extra page fetches** by harvesting ownership data from the same JSON payloads YouTube already loads (notably `ytInitialPlayerResponse` and `/youtubei/v1/player`). Once learned, Shorts and Watch surfaces can resolve identity instantly on the next encounter.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  YouTube loads video data                                   │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  FilterTube intercepts the data BEFORE it renders           │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  Checks against your keywords & channels                    │
│          ↓                                                  │
│  ┌──────────────┐              ┌──────────────┐             │
│  │ Matches your │  →  HIDDEN   │ Doesn't match│  →  SHOWN   │
│  │ filters      │              │ your filters │             │
│  └──────────────┘              └──────────────┘             │
│                                                             │
│  Result: Clean YouTube feed with only content you want      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### What Makes FilterTube Different

**Lightning Fast** - Filters content before YouTube renders it, so you never see unwanted videos flash on screen

**100% Private** - Everything happens in your browser. No data is sent to external servers.

**Comprehensive** - Filters videos, shorts, playlists, channels, comments, and more across all YouTube pages

**Reliable** - Uses a two-layer system: intercepts YouTube's data first, then monitors the page as backup

### Future Features (Coming Soon)

- **Semantic ML Filtering**: AI-powered filtering that understands video context, not just keywords
- **Kids Mode**: PIN-protected safe environment with whitelisted channels only
- **Smart Sync**: Automatic linking of channel @handles and IDs for better blocking

## Privacy & Permissions

We believe in privacy by design.
*   **Storage**: To save your settings locally.
*   **Active Tab**: To scan the YouTube page you are viewing.
*   **No External Requests**: FilterTube does not talk to any servers other than YouTube (for the content you requested).

## 🎬 Shorts Blocking Experience

FilterTube uses a robust hybrid blocking mechanism for YouTube Shorts.

**Current behavior (v3.1.7):** Shorts blocking is often **near-instant** because FilterTube learns `videoId → UC...` mappings from intercepted YouTube JSON and persists them. This makes Shorts behave much more like regular videos on Home/Search.

```ascii
[User Clicks "Block"]
        |
        v
+-------------------------------+
| 1. Resolve UC ID (fast path)  |
|    - DOM /channel/UC... OR    |
|    - videoChannelMap cache OR |
|    - Main-world JSON harvest  |
+-------------------------------+
               |
               v
+-----------------------+
| 2. Block & Hide       |
+-----------------------+
```

- **Robust Verification**: We resolve to a canonical `UC...` channel ID whenever possible so blocking applies across Shorts + long-form + posts.
- **Zero Leakage**: By resolving the canonical ID, we ensure that blocking a Short also blocks the channel's long-form videos and posts.
- **Smart Layouts**: Automatically adjusts the grid to prevent awkward blank spaces.

> [!NOTE]
> **What if the channel ID isn't available yet?**
> In rare cases where the card does not expose a `UC...` link and the mapping is not yet learned from intercepted JSON, FilterTube falls back to a slower network-based resolution (e.g., fetching a watch/shorts page) to guarantee correctness.

## Support

Found a bug or have a feature request? [Open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/varshneydevansh/FilterTube/issues).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a detailed history of changes and improvements.

---

### Why FilterTube?

YouTube's recommendation algorithms can sometimes surface unwanted content. FilterTube gives you control over what appears in your feed, allowing for a more focused and pleasant viewing experience without distractions or unwanted content.

**It all started with this thread on Google's support forum:**
When a parent said that he is helpless and his kid is just kept crying and screaming because of the content on YouTubeKids, and he asked me if I can create a tool to block videos by keyword or tag.
And when Later YouTube Forum maintaner deleted mine and other parents comments and locked the thread, I decided to create FilterTube.

[https://support.google.com/youtubekids/thread/54509605/how-to-block-videos-by-keyword-or-tag?hl=en](https://support.google.com/youtubekids/thread/54509605/how-to-block-videos-by-keyword-or-tag?hl=en)

Perfect for:
- **Parents** who want to protect their children from inappropriate content
- **Students** who need to stay focused while researching
- **Anyone** who wants a distraction-free YouTube experience

## For Developers

### Building from Source

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Develop for Chrome/Edge/Brave/Opera
npm run dev:chrome

# Develop for Firefox
npm run dev:firefox

# Build packages for distribution
npm run build              # All browsers
npm run build:chrome       # Chrome only
npm run build:firefox      # Firefox only
```

For detailed technical documentation, see [docs/ARCHITECTURE.md](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) and [docs/TECHNICAL.md](docs/TECHNICAL.md).

## Maintainer Notes: Script Layout

FilterTube runs code in two JavaScript contexts on YouTube:

### Isolated World (content scripts: DOM + UI)

The following scripts are loaded as content scripts (see `manifest*.json` for the authoritative load order):

- `js/shared/identity.js` – Shared channel identity helpers exposed as `window.FilterTubeIdentity`.
- `js/content/menu.js` – Menu styles + menu DOM helpers.
- `js/content/dom_helpers.js` – Small DOM helpers used by fallback logic.
- `js/content/dom_extractors.js` – DOM extraction helpers (video IDs, durations, card lookup).
- `js/content/dom_fallback.js` – DOM fallback filtering layer.
- `js/content/block_channel.js` – 3-dot menu observer/entry-point (detect dropdown + locate clicked card).
- `js/content_bridge.js` – Settings sync, bridge messaging, menu rendering/click handling, and blocking orchestration.

### Main World (page context: data interception)

- `js/seed.js` – Hook/override entry points for `ytInitialData`, `fetch`, and XHR.
- `js/injector.js` – Coordinator + main-world search helpers (e.g., `ytInitialData` lookups).
- `js/filter_logic.js` – Filtering engine that removes blocked content from YouTube’s JSON before render.
