TASKS.md, before:

# FilterTube Development Tasks

## Core Filtering Features
- [x] Basic keyword filtering
- [x] Channel filtering
- [x] Zero-flash filtering implementation
- [x] Filter regular YouTube videos
- [x] Filter shorts videos
- [x] Filter playlists/mixes
- [x] Filter side panel content
- [ ] Filter comments
- [ ] Filter community posts

## UI Elements (Based on Popup UI)
- [x] Keyword filter input
- [x] Channel filter input
- [ ] Hide all comments toggle
- [ ] Hide filtered comments toggle
- [ ] Hide all Shorts toggle
- [ ] Add export/import settings
- [ ] Add filter presets

## Performance Optimizations
- [x] Zero-flash filtering
- [x] Efficient CSS-based filtering
- [x] Optimized MutationObserver usage
- [ ] Cache filtering results
- [ ] Lazy filtering for less visible content

## Edge Cases
- [ ] Handle non-standard video layouts
- [ ] Support for YouTube Music
- [ ] Support for YouTube TV
- [ ] Channel filtering with '@' symbol
- [ ] Support for old YouTube layouts

## Documentation
- [x] Create CHANGELOG.md
- [x] Create TASKS.md
- [ ] Improve README with usage instructions
- [ ] Add screenshots to README

## Development Process
- [x] Set up Git workflow with proper commit messages
- [ ] Create unit tests for core functionality
- [ ] Set up automated build process

Commit message:

v1.3.3: Fix shorts filtering while preserving UI functionality

TASKS.md, after:

# FilterTube Development Tasks

## Core Filtering Features
- [x] Basic keyword filtering
- [x] Channel filtering
- [x] Zero-flash filtering implementation
- [x] Filter regular YouTube videos
- [x] Filter shorts videos
- [x] Filter playlists/mixes
- [x] Filter side panel content
- [ ] Filter comments
- [ ] Filter community posts

## UI Elements (Based on Popup UI)
- [x] Keyword filter input
- [x] Channel filter input
- [ ] Hide all comments toggle
- [ ] Hide filtered comments toggle
- [ ] Hide all Shorts toggle
- [ ] Add export/import settings
- [ ] Add filter presets

## Performance Optimizations
- [x] Zero-flash filtering
- [x] Efficient CSS-based filtering
- [x] Optimized MutationObserver usage
- [ ] Cache filtering results
- [ ] Lazy filtering for less visible content

## Edge Cases
- [x] Handle YouTube Shorts without breaking UI
- [x] Maintain horizontal scrolling for shorts/playlists
- [ ] Support for YouTube Music
- [ ] Support for YouTube TV
- [ ] Channel filtering with '@' symbol
- [ ] Support for old YouTube layouts

## Documentation
- [x] Create CHANGELOG.md
- [x] Create TASKS.md
- [ ] Improve README with usage instructions
- [ ] Add screenshots to README

## Development Process
- [x] Set up Git workflow with proper commit messages
- [ ] Create unit tests for core functionality
- [ ] Set up automated build process
